STEP 5 NOTES

This folder contains a spreadsheet file in which I excluded all public comment that did not address the Folsom corridor.  I then sorted, counted, and computed the percentages of the public comments re Folsom corridor that staff rated negative or positive.  

RightsizingAllPublicCommentFrom201508261015pdf.ods

As a courtesy, I am also providing the spreadsheet file in excel (.xlsx) format.

This folder also contains a screenshot image from the video feed of the presentation made to council at the study session in which staff claims that 57% of the approximately 950 Folsom corridor public comments were positive, while only 40% were negative. 

StaffFolsomOnlyCommentPercentages.png

The public comments marked by staff as addressing the Folsom corridor in this dataset do not support staff’s count nor their percentages.  In fact, this dataset shows (at best) that there only 45% of the public comments about were positive, while 51% were opposed.

Procedures:

(1) I sorted the dataset  in the All Comments sheet for cells A3:H1611 alphabetically by column D, “Corridor”. The resulting spreadsheet was saved as a new file.

(2) In perusing the data sorted by corridor, I quickly discovered that first corridor which pertained to Folsom was row 257 where the corridor was named “55th,iris,fools m”. The typo in the spelling of folsom made me realize a filter for “contains folsom” might inadvertently miss data. I also noticed consider variation in the corridor naming conventions (e.g Folsom and Iris v. Folsom&Iris”. All of these concerns meant I would have to delete rows by hand rather than relying on the filter function. Note that row 257 is highlighted this row to make this easier to spot.

(3) Second, I was unsure whether staff’s subset included public comments that were directed at the Folsom plus other corridors, such as at 55th, Iris, and Folsom in the example of row 257.  As I perused the document’s corridor naming conventions, I realized that if I decided to do that, I would probably have include public comments marked “All Corridors” as well, since Folsom is one of all the corridors.  I decided to make two subsets in two separate sheets called “FolsomPlusOthers” and “FolsomOnly”.

(4) For the “FolsomAmongOthers” sheet, I deleted all rows containing comments directed only at corridors not including Folsom, (such as rows 3 to 256 which are directed at 55th only).  That left 1189 Public Comments in the subset of comments directed at Folsom among other corridors.

(5) For the “FolsomOnly” sheet then, I deleted all remaining rows containing comments where the corridor was marked as directed at more than Folsom (e.g. folsom and Folsom Street stayed, but Folsom&Iris did not. 

(6) I resorted the data subsets by column E, Reaction, in order to count the number of negative, positive, and other types of reactions as staff has marked them.

(7) As for all public comments in Step 4, the beginning and ending rows where the reaction terms changed were pasted into the formulas. This computed the count and the percentages of the public comments which were positive, negative or otherwise marked.

Results:

The analysis shows that with respect to the subset of public comments directed at Folsom corridor among others, 50% were negative about ’right’-sizing on Folsom among other corridors, while 44% were positive. Neither these percentages nor the total number of comments are comparable to what staff presented to council.  

For the 652 comments marked as being directed at the Folsom corridor only, there were slightly more positive comments (47%) than negative comments (46%). This is still nowhere close to the 57% to 40% that staff presented to council.

Interestingly the numbers of both the Folsom corridor only (65) and for all public comments (1600) are about 300 less than the numbers cited by staff (approximately 950 Folsom corridor comments received and approximately 1900 public comments received in general.

As noted back in step 1, there are about 335 public comments in the spreadsheet from Inspire Boulder on the Living lab web page.

In step 6 I analyze the Folsom Street Feedback from Inspire Boulder comments so they can be combined with the preceding analysis of the pdf
