STEP 6 NOTES

This folder contains a spreadsheet file in which I analyze the 335 public comments from Inspire Boulder. Because staff had not yet marked up this data as to which corridor(s) it addressed, nor had they marked the public comment’s reaction as positive, negative, mixed or unclear, I was forced to make those judgments myself.

RightsizingPublicCommentFrom201508261015pdfandInspireBoulder.ods

As a courtesy, I am also providing the spreadsheet file in excel (.xlsx) format.

Note that there is now a sheet named “InspireBoulder”. It contains the public comments present in the Living Laboratory Excel spreadsheet “Folsom Street Feedback on Inspire Boulder” downloaded in Step 1. 

Procedures:

(1) I coded the comments data as honestly as possible. In all but a few cases which were directed at both Folsom and Iris, these comments were directed at the Folsom corridor only. Most comments were easy to declare positive and negative; a few were clearly mixed, some were neutral, and there were some borderline cases.  

Whenever possible, I tried to err on the side of positive, because at this point it is clear that this dataset is not supporting the percentages staff presented to council and I want to be as generous as possible. If you disagree with a few of my judgments, rest assured that the borderline cases are so few that they will not affect the overall results significantly.

(2) After coding, I sorted on column D (corridor) first and column E (reaction) second.  This is the order presented in the sheet labeled “InspireBoulder”.

(3) Row 4 is clearly not a comment but a test and should be discarded. Even if included, it belongs to no corridor.

(4) Note that the public comments in rows 5-9 pertain to both Folsom and Iris.

(5) As for all public comments in Step 4, the beginning and ending rows where the reaction terms changed were pasted into the formulas. This computed the count and the percentages of the public comments which were positive, negative or otherwise marked.

(6) To calculate the count and percentages of all 335 public comments on Inspire Boulder, the 5 additional comments on Folsom&Iris (2 mixed and 3 negative) were simply added to the Folsom Only counts.

Results:

The analysis shows that with respect to the subset of public comments from Inspire Boulder directed at Folsom corridor among others, 60% were negative about ’right’-sizing on the Folsom corridor, while 35% were positive. 

This 60%-35% negative-to-positive ratio of the percentages is more negative than the 46%-45% ratio in the 652 written comments in the dataset from the pdf, but it is consistent with the 59%-35% ratio in the larger set of all 1609 public comments from the pdf.  

In Step 7, I combine the Inspire Boulder comments with the comments from the pdf to make a complete dataset for all public comments dataset (1944 comments, which is close to staff’s mention of approximately 1900 comments received). I also combine the Folsom corridor only data from Inspire Boulder with the Folsom only data subset (987 public comments, which is close to the approximately 950 comments staff mentioned).
