STEP 4 NOTES

This folder contains a spreadsheet file in which I sorted, counted, and computed the percentages of all public comments that staff rated negative or positive.  it also contains a screenshot image from the video feed of the presentation made to council at the study session.

RightsizingAllPublicCommentFrom201508261015pdf.ods
1900PublicCommentsReceivedScreenShot.png

As a courtesy, I am also providing the spreadsheet file in excel (.xlsx) format.

Note also that there are 1609 public comment records in this dataset. In the screenshot however staff claim to have received approximately 1900 public comments on ‘right’-sizing in general.

Procedures:

(1) Table 1 of the cleaned-up spreadsheet from Step 3 was renamed All Comments and the spreadsheet was saved as a new file.

(2) I selected cells A3:H1611, which comprises the entire dataset except the two header rows. I then sorted the data alphabetically by column E, which is the “Reaction” (mixed/negative/neutral/positive/unclear/blank) that staff assigned to each public comment.

(3) The All Comments was then visually scanned and the first row of each reaction term was highlighted yellow. The beginning and ending rows of each reaction term were entered into a second sheet called “The Analysis.” Although spelling variations and typographical inconsistencies in the Reaction column were present, no artifacts were noted as result of them after sorting by Reaction type.

(4) Some simple excel formulas were developed around the beginning and ending row data to get the count of rows and compute the percentages of the comments by each Reaction type (i.e. negative v. positive).

Results:

The analysis shows that with respect to all public comments in this dataset, 59% were negative about ’right’-sizing in general, while only 35% were positive. This is similar to (but more precise than) the percentages obtained by a Daily Camera commentator who employed a crude word search for positive and negative on the same pdf file.

Note, however, that staff did not present any statistical data concerning the percentages of negative and positive for all public comments received. Also note that staff claims to have received approximately 1900 public comments (see screenshot), which is approximately 300 more than were found in this dataset culled from the pdf.

Staff did however present a statistical breakdown by percentage of those public comments addressed to the Folsom corridor.

In Step 5, I will restrict the dataset to the public comments on Folsom corridor specifically to see if this dataset produces a similar statistical breakdown.

